Computer-aided design, commonly known as CAD, is a manufacturing process that allows us to digitally create 2D drawings or 3D models of future products.
Used for designing the objects using the computer as a tool.

CAD is also known as CADD(Computer-Adied Design and Drafting).

Computer System acts as a tool that support in the
● creation
● modification
● analysis and 
● optimization of a design.

Manually designing was a tedious work, it consumes time and required repeated and varied attempts.The design software on other hand simplifies the whole process of designing.

There's a big range of CAD softwares packages for 2D vector-based drafting , such as AutoCAD, SketchUp, Adobe Illustrator, Corel Draw etc and 3D solid and surface modelers. 
CAD software provides the features that allow rotations in three dimensions and viewing of designed object  from different angles. It can be used to create complex designs with intricate details

CAD service , which includes drafting and desging with minimum errors, plays a vital role in making accurate architectural designs, building design, sturctural designs and electrical & mechanical designs.

Computer aided designs is used in Various Fields like:-

1) Architecture: Architects use it to create plans, models, and drawings of buildings, bridges, and other structures. It can effectively be used to design 2D floor plans and 3D schematics of houses, office buildings and other commerical structures.

2) Civil Engineering: Urban Planners use CAD software to plan urban infrastructure including parks, malls, industiral units, office complexes and more. While town planning, CAD softwares help in planning the road map, sewage system, electricity cable route, water supply system and communication route. On the computer screen, the enginners can view the various aspects of the the design and can decide the best feasible design for execution.

3) Interior Design: Design software allows interior designers to convert their vision into virtaul model using digital desinging. The clients can judge the final look of the project. They can also visualize the placement of furniture n rooms.

4) Computer Aided Manufacturing(CAM) : In industries, the manufacturing units use the computer aided machines for nanufactring the products like automobiles, machines and tools etc.

5) Textile designing and fashion designing: Now a days, the designs,used in different textiles manufacturing processes, are made using CAD. Some systems specialize in knitwear production and final knitted design can be viewed on screen with the indication of all stich formation. The print pattern can be resized, recolored and rotated depending on the designer's goal.

6) Cartography: Modern Catographers use some form of computer-aided software to plan climate road and topographic maps.
